[theme tune intro playing]
[digital sputtering and beeping]
-[upbeat synthesizers come in]
-[whooshing]
♪ Here we are ♪
♪ Going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
[digital typing, beeping]
THE SECRET
[tense music]
[phone rings]
Okay, Jeremy, I'm on my way.
-[Yumi gasps]
-Hey!
Hey!
[gasps]
Yumi, what are you doing up so late?
I wouldn't exactly call this up,
would you?
Sorry, I was speeding
to get back to the dorm.
I climbed the wall to see
"Skybreaker Four," but it was really lame.
The first three were duds,
why the big surprise?
[William] I'm too much of an optimist.
Even things start badly,
I feel they can get better with time.
-Okay, but I've gotta go.
-Where to?
To save the world.
Is that a good enough answer for you?
Let me go, William.
Okay, but before I do,
you got to kiss me good-night.
[shrugs]
-All right, but close your eyes.
-[William] Great.
Well, I guess my evening
wasn't a waste after all.
[footsteps dying away]
Yumi?
[William screams] Yumi!
[theme music]
Here I am, Jeremy. You can send me in.
Just in time to welcome Aelita, Odd
and Ulrich from Lyoko.
You've already deactivated the tower?
Hey, what happened to you?
Didn't your phone ring?
Don't worry. I oversleep
at least three times a week.
Of course, with Ulrich always snoring,
it's a question of survival!
It's not only my sleep
that's beginning to bring me down.
[upbeat music]
[Jim] Mathias Burrel.
Present.
Emmanuel Maillard.
-[Jim] Maïtena Lecuyer.
-[Maïtena] Here.
Hey, last night,
you pulled a fast one on me.
No one has ever humiliated
like that before! Why did you do it?
-Because I got sick of your Casanova act.
-But I--
In the beginning, it was pretty nice,
but now, I'm really fed up.
Buzz off, William, and leave me alone!
[Jim] William Dunbar.
William Dunbar!
Okay, I'm not deaf!
-You can see I'm here, can't you?
-[gasps]
Dunbar, to the library! Outta my sight!
No swimming for you today, you hear?
Anyway, I'd like to know what you had
to do that was so important last night.
And I'm gonna find out
what your big secret is.
[William] You can bet on that!
Don't worry, Jeremy.
We're gonna make a fabulous report.
We'd better. It counts
for the whole semester.
So, what's the latest in the world
of Kadic Junior High today?
"Is Judith going out with Ronald?"
Who are Judith and Ronald?
How should I know? But they're going out.
[Jeremy] Oh, no, a XANA alert!
[Ulrich] Not again!
Yeah, but the problem is Aelita and me
can't get out of history class.
Don't sweat it, Einstein.
Ulrich and I will get ready.
When you get there,
you can send us to Lyoko.
But finish your report
as fast as possible.
Second grade Casanova, uh?
[Ulrich] Yumi is not picking up.
What's going on with her?
Last night, and then now.
[hums]
Sir, is it OK if we begin now?
Yes, you may.
But where are Odd and Ulrich?
Well, you see, sir,
they had something important to do, and--
More important than my class?
Well, I wasn't supposed to tell you,
but they're preparing
a surprise for your class.
A surprise? What kind of surprise?
It's a big historical show in your honor.
I'd never have guessed!
I'll excuse their absence.
-And now sir, can we begin?
-Yes, of course.
Tell us about World War One.
[Jeremy] On 1914, a Serbian student
assassinated Archduke Franz-Ferdinand,
nephew and heir to the Austro-Hungarian
Emperor, Franz-Joseph.
This took place in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Political alliances were reinforced,
and all of Europe got involved.
Serbia, Russia, France and GB were against
Germany and Austria-Hungary.
More countries got involved.
Germany invaded Belgium.
Italy, Greece, Romania
and the U.S. joined the allies.
Turkey and Bulgaria
supported central Europe.
[action music]
[Odd grunts]
[William pants]
[Jeremy] The armistice treaties of 1918
put an end to the fighting,
but peace treaties were needed
for a definitive end
to "the war to end all wars,"
clearing the way for a lasting peace.
Finally, the victorious countries united
in a peace conference
with a two-fold mission
of creating a "League of Nations"
and the adoption of peace treaties
sent to the defeated nations.
I hope that wasn't too long.
[grunts]
Sir, may I go to the infirmary?
I've a bit of a headache.
-I do too, sir.
-Yes, go on.
I'm not feeling too well either
all of a sudden.
[tense music]
[Odd] Call Yumi again.
She's bound to answer sooner or later.
[nods]
-[phone rings]
-Today, we'll learn synchronized swimming.
That means, no speed competitions,
no stop watches, just pure grace.
[Jim] But, since "a picture is worth
a thousand words,"
here's a demonstration.
Admire the finesse.
[giggles]
[sad trombone]
You know what I think? That's about
as graceful as tractor pulling.
[girl laughs]
[theme music]
[Aelita] I hope we get a good grade
even our presentation was fast.
It was "a one-page presentation."
He didn't give us any time limit.
Lately, XANA's getting
more and more active.
We're constantly on Lyoko.
Sorry to interrupt, but would you tell me
who this XANA dude is?
There you are! We've already
started things up. Your turn, Einstein.
[gasp]
What's William doing here?
He must have followed you.
Wow! What is this?
And what do you guys do in here?
May I punch him?
-Try it if you dare!
-Calm down.
Our priority now is the tower.
After that, a simple return to the past,
and William won't remember a thing.
I wouldn't bet on that.
I remember everything,
and I'm great at holding a grudge.
-Where's Yumi?
-She's unreachable.
So that's her secret!
A supercomputer hideout!
That's incredible.
Now I understand
why she didn't tell me anything.
We'll have to make do without her,
but I don't like this.
I can go and get her if you want.
[everyone gasp]
[nods]
[theme music]
I hope he won't rat on us
to the principal.
[Odd] That's not his style.
And, this is an emergency.
We need Yumi.
XANA's preparing dirty tricks.
[heartbeat]
[Jeremy] Transfer Aelita. Transfer Odd.
Transfer Ulrich.
Scanner Aelita. Scanner Odd.
Scanner Ulrich.
Virtualization.
[digital whirring]
Here come your vehicles.
The activated tower
is at the northern edge of the sector.
You should be able to see its halo.
How come you're always right, Einstein?
[Ulrich] Okay, Jeremy, we're on it.
[relaxing music]
Be like me. Remember my example, my grace.
Emergency, Yumi. Let's go!
[William] XANA's launched an attack.
Dunbar, what is this gibberish?
You making fun of me?
No. I mean, not this time.
To the principal's office, on the double!
You're right Jim.
Because of him, I nearly drowned.
Let me take him to the principal's office,
to make sure he doesn't run away.
Good idea. Go on and take him,
Miss Ishiyama.
That's very responsible attitude
on your part.
And you could learn a lot
from her example, Dunbar!
Yes, you're right. I know that Yumi's
got a lot she can fill me in on.
Watch it. Kankrelats are behind you.
[gasp]
[Aelita] I'll take care of them.
[Aelita grunts]
[Aelita] Energy field!
How many are there?
A big gang of them.
Thanks. Nothing like precision!
[Ulrich] Here we go!
[Ulrich grunts]
Sorry, guys, but I don't play favorites.
It's the same treatment for everyone!
[tense music]
[bomb beeps]
[action music]
Aelita, climb aboard.
[Odd grunts]
Laser arrow!
[Ulrich] Go on, Aelita, hop off.
[ticking]
[tense music]
Closing in on it.
Great! The Kankrelats will be overjoyed.
[Ulrich] We'll go separate ways
and meet on the other side.
[Odd] Gotcha!
Hang on tight, Aelita.
Ready for some turbulence?
[both scream]
[Aelita gasps]
[Aelita screams]
Since when do Kankrelats
have turbo engines?
[Aelita moans]
[Aelita screams]
[Odd screams]
[grunts]
[Ulrich yells]
[Ulrich] Are you two okay?
Sure, no problem.
[panting]
I still can't figure out what you do here.
And I can't figure out
why they agree to let you lend us a hand.
Maybe, they trust me, not like--
Jeremy, it's me, I'm--
We're on the bridge.
Odd and Ulrich are close
to the activated tower.
Oh, no! I came too late
for the party again.
Hey, is he one of your super heroes?
No, I think he's more
of a big super bad guy.
Jeremy, there's someone here
possessed by XANA
so we might be a little late.
Okay. Be careful.
I'll tell the others to hurry up.
That guy is your super enemy?
An electric company worker?
That's so lame. I was expecting
something more gory.
[grunts]
I take it back.
He's a super enemy electrical worker.
[Ulrich] Go on, I'll take care of them.
That was pretty sneaky to hit and run!
Yumi, are you still there?
Yes, but maybe not for long.
This guy is a terror!
[Jeremy] Hang in there, Aelita
will get to the tower any minute now.
[grunts]
[William] I'll take care of him.
William, don't!
[William grunts]
[Jeremy] Yumi, what's going on?
Come on! Answer please!
Odd, you've gotta get the job done!
Really? I thought we'd do it
after tea time.
[digital whirring]
[pants]
-I've gotta tell you this, okay?
-This is a very bad time, William.
[William] I can't swim.
[Yumi screams]
[computer beeps]
[Aelita] Tower deactivated!
Bravo, Aelita!
[phone rings]
-[Jeremy] Yumi?
-Jeremy, nice going.
You were just in time.
-Are you okay?
-[Yumi] Yeah, but it was a close call.
Hey, what happened?
[Yumi] Well, now you can launch
a return in time, right?
So that "you know who" doesn't interfere
with us again.
How do you know it's over?
The guy works for Explobat.
-So?
-If I'm not mistaken,
that company specializes
in building demolition.
I'll bet he came here fully equipped
to blow your factory sky high.
Did you hear what William just said?
[Jeremy] Relax, Yumi.
When we return to the past, the explosives
will disappear with William's memory.
Oh, no, the Scyphozoa!
[Scyphozoa groans]
It's got Aelita!
So launch a return to the past!
It's too dangerous.
We don't know what might happen to Aelita
if we do it when she's in its clutches!
Get back here now
and I'll send you to Lyoko.
Ulrich, Odd, go find that bomb.
We'll do.
[theme music]
-[Ulrich] Good luck, Yumi.
-You too, guys.
[Yumi] Find that dumb bomb
so our factory
doesn't go up in smoke.
-I think we should split up.
-Okay, then let's go.
[action music]
[Jeremy] Transfer Yumi.
Scanner Yumi.
Virtualization.
[digital whirring]
[Yumi] The Scyphozoa
has just released Aelita.
[Jeremy] She's heading
to destroy the Ice Sector
You've got to avoid that, at all costs!
Okay, consider it done.
[Yumi] Well, almost.
[Odd] Okay, I found it.
It's over here.
That's only one of the charges he set up.
There must be a detonator somewhere.
We have to find it.
How do you know this?
My uncle worked in construction.
On vacation, he used to show me how to--
Family stories are all very moving,
but we are kind of pressed here.
Thanks, Odd. So, where do you think
we'll find the detonator?
I don't know, but that guy should know.
Sure, but he's out cold.
Keep searching. I'll try to wake him up.
[action music]
[Jeremy] Get through
that blockade of Megatanks.
Aelita is closing in on the way tower.
Come on Sleeping Beauty, wake up now.
Look, it's your Prince Charming.
[man] What's going on? Where am I?
My dynamite!
Where are my explosives?
In the factory, with a detonator.
Can you recall anything?
No. Oh, my head!
[Yumi shouts]
Yumi!
Careful, Yumi, you don't have a lot
of life points left.
[Odd] Look carefully.
To blow this factory,
where would you place the detonator?
I can't think too straight,
but I guess I would put it
somewhere high up,
so the signal could reach all the charges.
[phone rings]
[Odd] Ulrich, look for it somewhere
over your head. Somewhere high up.
[Yumi] It's okay Jeremy.
I've got Aelita in my sights.
-I think I found the detonator.
-[William] Where?
Way up there.
[beeping]
I'm sorry, Aelita,
but I don't have any choice.
[Ulrich] We found the detonator.
We have to evacuate now.
Everything's gonna blow in a few seconds.
Impossible, Ulrich!
We can't leave Yumi and Aelita on Lyoko!
[William] Give me your belt.
I'll try to defuse the detonator,
and shunt the electricity.
How will you do that?
My uncle explained it to me once.
-Once?
-Once is enough, if you're not too dumb.
Now, get out of here. If it doesn't work,
it'll be stupid for both of us to blow up.
No way. If you stay, I'll stay.
That makes three of us.
[grunts]
Another one and it's game over for you,
and it's gonna be the end
of the Ice Sector as well.
[tense music]
[digital whirring]
[Aelita screams]
[grunts]
[ticking]
Yeah!
Jeremy, William defused the detonator.
We're saved.
[sighs]
[theme music]
[William] Come on! Please?
I swear I won't tell anyone.
He deserves it. He could be a soldier.
And he's proven he can help.
Well, let's vote. If everybody votes yes,
William can officially become
a member of our club.
Too bad, William. There's one "no."
You're the big losers.
I was expecting this might happen.
Some guys just can't handle being jealous.
Well, what do we do now?
[Jeremy] What do you think?
A return to the past.
[Odd] That was uncool, Ulrich.
Why'd you vote "no"?
[Ulrich] Don't look at me.
I'm not crazy about him, but he saved us.
He'd be a great Lyoko warrior.
I didn't vote "no".
Well, if it wasn't you nor me,
either Jeremy or Aelita, then it was--
Sorry, William.
But I don't think you can be trusted.
[theme music]